establishment. Where was it and how big was it?
Well, it's just on the other side of the Brazos
River Bridge at Highway 60. And it was just
probably no more than a 20 by 30 size building. It
was a relatively small place. And it was the
closest place to Galley Station to buy liquor. It
was right across the county line in whatever
county that is. Burleson. Burleson County. What
else did it offer for sale other than liquor? Well,
beer and liquor. And that's maybe, you know, some
jerky and the usual kind of stuff like that. No gas
station or anything like that? No, no. It was just a
liquor store. And was open? Well, I guess whatever
the hours allowed under state law, I'm sure it was
open full time. But the woman that ran it, she was
still there when I came back as a faculty member. It
was the same woman. Did you ever hear of a
bootlegger in Brazos County? I never have. No. I'm
sure there were, but I didn't know about them.
There were, you know, there was a place out on, we
heard about, that was out on the Brazos River that
was supposedly a plantation that ran, you know,
prostitutes and gambling. Great. We never did
know exactly where that was, but it was one of those
things you heard about. I think that had been there
during the Bryan Air Force days. Oh, okay. Whether
it still was or not, I don't know. Yeah, I don't know
either. All right, how often did anybody bring
liquor back to the dorm, be it beer or hard liquor? I
guess frequently. I said that in the dorm we were
in, they would take the medicine cabinet out of the
wall, and there was a hollow space in there, and
there were pipes, because the sink was right below
it. And they could hang the liquor, put a string
around a heavy nylon line around the bottle, and
they'd drop it down where you couldn't see it. And
one time, I think the story was that somebody
dropped one down too far. And of course, they took
it out, and it was from above, and it got caught. So
you had to hang it just about right. Did anybody
ever go in and steal somebody else's while they
weren't in the room? I don't know. I'm sure it
probably happened. Do you remember anybody
getting caught by an inspection officer? Well, I
never actually witnessed it, but I had heard that
people had gotten caught. Let's see,
back to dorm life, what about some jokes, some
pranks, some good bull that you, during those two
years that you heard of? Oh, yeah, yeah. There was
always something that would go on. Describe some
of that. One of the better ones was this guy that,
his name was Hubert, Earl Hubert, and he was an
upperclassman, and he he was was sort of the
officious I guess might be a good way of describing
his nickname was Earl the girl because he had sort
of effeminate behaviors and Earl kept his keys on a
on a chain you know and the chain was gonna go in his
pocket and he would come up and unlock the door to
his to his dorm room and with this key you know and it
would still be attached to him and and so I wasn't
actually in on doing it, but they got a bicycle
inner tube and they tied it to the radiator. And
then they used to take the end of a Coke carton and
you saw the metal or wooden Coke cartons that
carried the Coke bottles and they saw a thing and
they were called fuck sticks because you could
lock somebody in your dorm room with them. Well,
they took one of those and put it on, they tied the
bicycle inner tube to that and then, you know,
stretched it and closed the door so that when Earl
came up and stuck his key in and turned it, of
course, it just, it took his belt off. And he got
very upset about that. And another thing, and I was
in on this, we moved his dorm room, all of his
furniture to the shower and set it up inside the
shower. And that was a thing that happened
occasionally. What about anybody you hear of, an
animal put into their room? Yeah, we got a bunch of
dead rabbits one time, put them in somebody's
room. Put them in a place where they weren't going
to be found for a little while, up in the top of the
closet, as I recall. Of course, they really
started stinking in a day or so. Now, where did the
rabbits come from? Where did anybody get the dead
rabbits? Well, at that time, they had a program in
the 60s where they killed off all the coyotes, and
they paid ranchers and trappers to kill them, and
they had this explosion of, of rabbits and rats.
And, hey, you could go out on the road and, you know,
about every ten feet there'd be a dead rabbit. It
was amazing. There was one period in there was, you
know. But, yeah, there were lots of dead rabbits
you could find and roadkill, basically. Another
good thing that they would do would be to babble
bomb somebody. And you would, you know, You'd take
the light bulb out of the room. There's just one big
light up in the room. You could have a desk lamp.
There's one big light bulb. You'd take that out and
screw in a thing where you could plug a wire in, an
extension cord. And then you would fray the ends of
the extension cord and with the light off, you
know, wrap them together and stick them down
inside of a, which you could buy at that time, like
M-80s or cherry bombs. And then you put that inside
of a can of Babbo or one guy, they did it with pepper
and I think he ended up in the hospital, you know.
And this was in the animal company downstairs, E2.
And of course, you go in, you turn the light on, this
rather powerful firecracker, in fact, they're
outlawed, you can't even buy them today, would go
off and blow Babbo, or the one-case pepper all over
the room. And, of course, it meant the freshmen
then had to come and clean the room up, you know, and
get rid of all this bad, which just went absolutely
everywhere, you know. And then another thing that
happened would be they would flood out
dormitories. You got to go to...
But they would flood out the dormitories. Now,
this never happened, but there were stories that
they would... know take all the tops off the
toilets and water and this happened the year
before i came and apparently people were still
talking about it and they sort of filled the
dormitory up with uh with water and you know you got
to wonder why the university would allow this to go
on you know and of course maybe they because you got
to have done tremendous damage to the buildings
you know plumbing and wiring and and everything in
fact i think there was a very strong prohibition
against doing that. One of the other dorms in that
area did get flooded out and some of them would go
into the steam tunnels and turn the water off to the
building and then go in and take the tops off all the
toilets and then go back down the steam tunnel and
turn the water back on. Now, do you have any idea
how, where they got into the steam tunnels? Well,
there was a space in each
where it came up into the dormitory. And it was in a
closet that somebody had a key to. Did you ever go
into a steam tunnel? No, I never did. Did you know
where the entrance was? Well, there were some
outside ones, too, where you could take the lid
off. Like a manhole cover? Actually, more like a
piece of plate steel was laying there. And you
could see steam coming out of them at times,
literally, in the right weather conditions. Do
these tunnels still exist, as far as you know? I
guess. I don't know. Somebody told me that that
they had a lot of trouble with the buildings all
along what was military walk, because there used
to be a steam tunnel that went under that street.
And when they tore the street out, they closed that
in and filled in that steam tunnel. And it all
created a real drainage problem. And that's
between YMCA and academic and all of that, which
was that when I came here as a faculty member, it was
still a street. Were there ever any pranks at
mealtime? Yeah. There were, you know, individual
things where one upperclassman would get a
freshman to do something to another
upperclassman's food or something like that. Or
the other thing was that there was always a
military officer that ate in the dining hall and
kind of sat over on a table. I think it was a little
bit elevated. And I always wondered how the guy
felt, you know. I mean, there eating by yourself.
And occasionally there'd be another officer with
him, but generally this guy's there by
themselves. And occasionally what they would do
is that on some command everybody would stand up
and throw a bread roll over to this and hit this guy.
And he took it with, I guess, a certain degree of
affection. We really didn't hate him quite as bad
as he might have thought or something. I don't
know. And then there were other kinds of things on
people's birthdays where things would do it. And
there was an animal guy. In fact, that was his
nickname, Animal, that was in E2. And there was
this three-legged dog that ran around campus
called Tripod. And I think it was probably a like a
mixed golden retriever or Irish setter,
something like that, the color of it. It was a big
red dog with his left front leg missing. And Tripod
got around just fine on the three legs. he would
come into Sabisa Dining Hall and this guy would sit
him in a chair next to him at the table and he would
eat.
And nobody said anything. It's kind of amazing.
And let's see, and Ranger was around then, Mr.
Rutter's dog. Right, he was, yeah. Describe. He
was an English bulldog with a brachycephalic
skull, a pushed in thing. And the youngest rudder
boy used to come over. And he was a real kind of pest,
as boys about 9 or 10 can be. And he was just looking
for attention, I guess. He probably had no
playmates on the campus. And he would come over
with Ranger. And of course Ranger would bark at
people and you know. Ann Rutter told me, in fact,
that dog, they had a place out at Carter Lake, and he
walked off the end of the pier and couldn't swim and
apparently drowned, was the end of Ranger. And
then he was buried over there. Oh, really? Oh, his
grave's still marked. Really, where? Out there in
front of the President's House. Is that? There's a
little bitty. Oh, is that right? Yes. That I didn't
know. I noticed that. Oh, okay. Over by where the
old President's House was. No, no, no, no. Oh, the
new president's house. The new president's
house. Oh, that's right, because they would have
burned it in 63 and Ranger died later on. As you go by
you'll see four little posts and there's a little
kind of a rope. I guess I've seen that. I didn't know
what that was. That's Ranger's Lass.
Can he see the scoreboard? I don't think. Did you
all ever attempt to play any tricks on faculty
members in class or anything? No. I don't ever hear
of anybody doing that. The only thing that even,
and this wasn't a trick, but I took organic
chemistry and we worked on this lab project for
ages and, you know, I mean like two lab periods. In
the end, obviously, something went wrong. The
thing foamed up, and it went all over the bench and
everything. And so we had to turn in this
precipitate that we got in the end. And so we looked
at what other people had, and we went over and found
something on the shelf. And we said, yeah, that's
it. So we put it into the bottle, and we turned it in.
And the next lab period, this guy is Rakoff. He
says, you know, halter? I want to see you for a
minute. And he said, what the hell did you all put in
that bottle? And we just played innocent. We had to
redo the experiment on our own time. We always
imagined that he probably had something he poured
into it, tested it, and it had to turn some color or
do something. And he poured it in and it blew up in
his face. That's what we expected, maybe. What did
you and your friends come to believe were the
general guidelines about class attendance and
class behavior and so forth at A&M? Well,
attendance was something you did. You didn't miss
class, you know. Now there were people who would do
that, but by and large I think the class attendance
was, and the expectations were that, If you were
called on in some classes, you'd stand up to
answer. Like military science classes, you had to
pop to attention if you were called on to answer a
question. I don't think other classes did that.
But it was the expectation where you shut up and you
behaved yourself. But I don't know that there was
ever any problem. I don't remember there being
behavior anymore than there are today.
Occasionally, you have people who who act up in
class, but what I found is the other students
generally discipline them, and you don't have to
really do very much. Do you remember anybody
getting in trouble for going to sleep? Oh, yeah,
including me. What happened? Well, I had to stand
up the rest of the class period.
You'd never get away with that today, I suspect.
How did you, that first semester, how did you come
out academically here? Oh, I didn't do very well. I
think part of it was, you know, there was I guess a
lot of the stuff, the hazing you took personally,
you know, and you probably shouldn't have, but you
know, I don't know, it just wasn't my character I
guess to, and there was a lot of crap that went on,
you know. Did you think about leaving? Yeah. Why
didn't you? Well, if you wanted to be a
veterinarian, you had to go to A&M. So you came back
the next year. So was the spring semester better?
Oh, yeah, I don't think there was any question
about spring, you know, coming back. And, you
know, coming back the next year may have been more
the question, you know. But I came back for, you
know, my third year in college. And when did you
begin to think about something other than
veterinary medicine? I think it's when it's
obvious that you weren't doing well enough in the
science classes. I never caught on to organic
chemistry, and that was a real weed-out course for
vet school. And some of the other anatomy things
that you had to do, and somehow an animal soaked in
formaldehyde that you had to cut up just wasn't my
idea of a lot of fun. And you knew that in vet school,
it was a quarter section of a horse that you had to
work on. Because a horse is, I don't know, it's
still the basis of anatomy. I don't know, it was
just a lot of that. Also, you know, when I went home
like in the summer, and other times I worked for
this veterinarian in Wichita Falls, and the more I
saw what you did as a veterinarian, and you know, it
really was hard work. You know, and I think at that
time you got $15 for a spay or neutering of an
animal. A lot of work for not much money. And I
remember one afternoon, we were at a long
operation, and it's hot, you know, Wichita Falls
is summer, sweating, and you think, man, I kind of
wish this animal would die so I can get the hell out
of here. That's probably not the attitude you need
if you're going to be a veterinary.
That second year, did you have some classes, some
instructors that were important? Yeah, well, I
think you were, as I said, as a Civil War class. Why
did a pre-vet take a course in that? I don't know. I
changed my major, you know, to history and
political science. What led you to make that
change? I think I just always enjoyed history. And
I had Blue Book Benton for government, as it was
called back then, state and local government,
207. the first course, American National
Government at Midwestern from John Tower. And
then Tower described
Professor John Tower. Well, Professor John Tower
is only about three feet tall. Most people don't
know. He's not that short. No, I know. He's five
foot something. He's a very short guy. And he was
very cocky. He, you know, had these really
immaculate suits that he wore to class and he had
this fedora hat that he would come in with it on.
impeccably dressed, and it was quite a sort of
show. And he had by that point been converted to
republicanism, and that in itself was sort of a
surprise. And I think he was, a lot of what he said
and did, I don't think I realize it, was very
political. in his approach to things. Now, he was a
full-time faculty member. Yes. Was that, I guess,
a lecture? I don't know. In hindsight, was it
obvious that he was aiming for elected No, it was
not. It was not obvious at all. But the next year, he
did. I guess it was 61, wasn't it? Because, yeah,
special election, 1961. So I was here at A&M.
Describe his capability as a as a teacher, as a
lecturer? Oh, he was interesting. He was
engaging, you know, and kept your attention. He
told lots of stories. He had run for the
legislature as a Democrat sometime in the 50s. Of
course, there weren't any Republicans in Wichita
County at that time except his father-in-law,
Orville Bullington. who ran for governor in 32
against Ma Ferguson as a Republican, did rather
well. And he was an oil man, came down from
Pennsylvania and bought his Republican, this is
Orville Bullington. Centaur, after he married
Bunny Bullington, his first wife, really, I
guess, began the conversion to Republicanism.
And I think his father-in-law was a big influence
on him. He told lots of interesting stories about
politics. And he'd run for the state legislature
along with another guy that ran They campaigned
together, and I don't remember now which seats
they were in for, but the guy worked for Lyndon
Johnson and was caught in a homosexual encounter,
remember, in a restroom during the 64 campaign.
What is that guy's name? Anyway, worked for Lyndon
Johnson, went back to Austin after that and worked
at KLBJ I think. I'll think of his name anyway. How
would, as you think back, how would you rank John
Tower's intellectual, was it a good solid course?
I think so, yeah. Was he politically biased? Oh
yeah. But did your answers have to be biased? Well,
I think they were, I don't know that they had to be.
He gave a kind of a cross between short answer and
multiple guess and matching type. How rigorous
was the course? I didn't find it very hard, but I
guess I had a talent or an ability in that area, not
in organic chemistry. All right, now you and I both
know that Gene Benton was a legendary teacher
here. You're the first person I've interviewed
yet that had him in class, so supply as much
information for the future about Gene Benton as
the teacher from a student's point of view. Gene
was very interesting. He's a walking
encyclopedia of Texas government. His first
book, which I have at home, I have most of the other
editions here, to a large degree was ripped off by a
lot of the other Texas government textbook
people. It's amazing if you go and look at all of
these, how many of them are simply quoting other
books in Texas government. I mean, there's no
primary source, and some of them are really bad
academically. And they rely upon Benton for their
information. And so here you have the guy that's
teaching the class. He wrote the book, which
really helped a lot. And I basically went through
and outlined the book in great detail. His
lectures, when he would lecture, he never looked
at the students. He always looked in another
direction or something else. If you asked him a
question, he would momentarily look you directly
in the eye. But he would stand there and talk for the
entire 50 minutes, just a constant. stream of
information and really, I say, encyclopedic
knowledge of aspects of the Texas legislature.
You go back and look at the first edition. Later
editions, and I expect it was editorial changes,
weren't quite that way, weren't quite as
legalistic, detailed. God, I mean the footnotes
in that first book are just incredible, the
detailed information. Kind of a, almost a Milton
Nance kind of, the Mere Expedition type, you know
what I mean, by that detail and footnoting and
things, yeah. But, you know, I, a lot of people
really didn't like him because, you know, he spoke
in almost a monotone and he didn't look, but there
was a lot of information coming out there. Any
humor? Very little. And
did he tolerate any pranks or jokes or any student
not paying attention? I don't think anybody would
have dared do that, you know. I mean, he had a
reputation of being a, I mean, his nickname was
Blue Buck Benton. Yeah, I know, but this machine
doesn't. Why was he Blue Buck Benton? He would say,
well, the exam will be Thursday of next week. Bring
two blue books. And the expectations were that you
filled up a couple of blue books answering the
questions. It was right like hell, basically. If
you didn't have, if you forgot your blue book, what
happened? I never did. I don't know of anybody that
ever did. I
used to tell students, I still do, I say, if you
forget your blue book, I will have some available
for sale in class on that day, and they cost three
dollars each. How rigorous was the course? It was
very rigorous. I made a B in it. I felt I deserved an
A. But I don't know that Gene gave A's. Maybe he did.
And I had one of the better grades in the class. And
he didn't grade on the curve. I don't know that he
did, no. I don't think so. And, you know, back then,
92 and above was an A, you know, so you could have a 90
and, you know. But he didn't give numerical
grades, as I remember he gave, like pluses and
minuses, A minus, B plus, and so on. Did you ever
have many conversations with him out of class
about political science and so forth? No. He
wasn't real approachable. And I think that was
true via accurate observation when I came back as a
faculty member, you know, that he didn't He didn't
interact much with the students. He was not here
much except during office hours, and he was
faithful to that. There was absolutely nothing in
his office. Maybe a phone book and nothing else.
And that was because I didn't know at the time, but
later on he told me that when he was a faculty member
at SMU, where he taught John Tower, incidentally,
that
John Birchers decided he was a communist, and they
went to his office looking for evidence that he was
a communist in the Bircher-McCarthy days, and so
he never kept anything in his office, which I found
peculiar. Were his lectures objective? I think
so, but probably with a liberal bent would be my
evaluation. I'm not real sure I was sophisticated
enough to pick up on those things at the time. And I
must admit, I remember coming home and saying some
things around my father who once had a picture of
Roosevelt on the wall. We did not have candles and a
kneeling rail, but we could have. And saying some
things about Roosevelt or the Democrats or
something like that, and getting quite a reaction
from my father, and I didn't do that again. What?
Stuff that John Tower had said in class. Oh, oh, oh.
You know, and so I come home and say, well,
Professor Tower says. It's really interesting in
this, there's this thing in here about can Bush be
elected and there's the Hispanic from San Antonio
that has the big huge advertising firm and he's one
of the people that they're quoting and this is
really interesting because I had this same
experience. He says here,
this is Lionel Sosa, was preteen when an
independent street with his father brought home a
television set for the family in San Antonio in
1952. When he turned it on, the Republicans were
anointing Dwight David Eisenhower as a nominee
for president. The youngster was mesmerized. My
parents said, Lionel, you can't be like Reich.
He's a Republican. The 61-year-old Sosa
remembers today, we've always been Democrats.
Republicans are the party of the rich, and we're
the poor. And the Democrats are the party of the
poor. I said, well, then who the hell wants to be
poor? And that's why I was rebelling. Well, I
remember having a very similar experience, and
this is in Oklahoma City in 1952. And I came home
with an I Like Ike button on, which somebody had
given me at school. And my grandmother gave me this
lecture about we don't wear those kinds of things.
and removed the button. As you look back on it, did
Gene Benton for you become a kind of an
intellectual role model?
I don't think so. Political science, a faculty
member? Maybe to some degree, yeah. I hadn't
really decided on political science at that
point. In fact, I really didn't. until I decided to
go to graduate school. As an undergraduate, I got a
double major in history and political science.
And it was kind of a decision about which way do you
go. And I think part of the experience I had at
Midwestern with some of the faculty members that
really encouraged me to go on to graduate school
was maybe why I went in that direction. All right.
Here, that second year, whom did you turn to for
academic advice? Well, for you, to a large degree,
about, you know, I still remember you talking
about, I was already considering graduate
school. Remember you told me you need to go to the
best graduate school your time and abilities will
get you into, and time, abilities, and money will
get you into. And, you know, I did a master's degree
at Midwestern. And part of it, you know, you had a
pretty low academic fall at A&M. And then you have
to dig your way out of that, you know, which you
managed to do at Midwestern. And I guess the
redemption, and that included going on to
graduate school. And then you had enough whatever
to do, do well enough on the GRE and enough grades
and recommendations to get into graduate school.
Now, that second year here, do you remember what
you, you went your sophomore and junior year here.
Do you remember what your GPA was when you left?
Right around a 2.0. 2.0? Well, 1.0 back then. Oh,
yeah, yeah, about 2.0. About 2.0 by today's
standards. And so you had changed your major.
Anybody else you turned to for advice? Was there an
associate dean or an assistant dean? No. I do
remember meeting with Hubert when I changed my
major. He was, I think, dean of arts and sciences at
that point. Do you describe that? I don't remember
much about it, but I just remember, and then years
later when I came back, for an interview for the
faculty position, I met with the same guy. I don't
think I mentioned that to him. All right. Describe
the MSC and its role for an undergraduate during
your years here. What was the MSC? What did that
mean to you? Well, we'd go over there maybe in the
afternoons to have coffee or something like that.
And I got interested and involved with SCONA my
junior year. How did that come about? just
interest in politics. And here's a program that's
bringing in political speakers from outside.